How does Hollywood get script feedback?
I love this website called Quora, that's Q-U-O-R-A.com
as you can ask very detailed questions
that experts often answer for you.
So how do professional screenwriters
get feedback on a work in progress script?
Well, I want to Quora and I did a search
and according to this guy, Ken Miyamoto
who used to be a scriptwriter and reader at Sony Pictures,
he starts with getting feedback from his wife.
I do the same thing too, right?
And Christine, my wife, she's so awesome.
She'll always give me the most honest feedback, right,
then what Miyamoto-san does
is he gets feedback from his manager which is interesting
because I suppose that Ken Miyamoto's manager
is the key decision maker.
So his main client I suppose is his manager, right?
It's your call on if you wanna get feedback
from your manager.
Up to you as I don't know the politics
or culture of your company, okay?
The stars all need to be aligned for a script
to make it in Hollywood
and the same thing goes for business model presentations
and funding startups in venture capital, right?
Most don't ever get funded.
In fact, more than 50% of all companies that get started,
slow down, Chris, slow down,
more than 50% of all companies, right, that get founded,
right, go bankrupt within a couple years or so.
So make sure to listen to the feedback you get, right,
and if you ever read my feedback in Udemy,
sometimes people will say that I speak too quickly
in some presentations, okay, and they're right.
The customer's always right.
So Ken Miyamoto has four additional go to people
that he uses to read his scripts according to quora.com
but for you and me, these additional four or so people
that can review our content should be perfect examples
of who our target audience is going to be, okay?
And I remember before my wedding,
I practiced to my best friend at that time, Jason Denny.
He's a smart guy but I also practiced
to my aunts and uncles.
Is it aunt or is it aunt?
My aunts or uncles, right and also to some other friends
and I tried to get people that were,
kinda representative of different age groups and whatnot,
demographics, right 'cause you only get married once
so you only get one opportunity to give a great speech,
right, and we'll study my speech later, my wedding speech.
There were mistakes in it but whatever, we'll see.
Okay, so include mentors when you're getting feedback
only if one, they're successful at giving presentations
and two, they are representative
of your target market audience, okay,
and I'm sure that many Hollywood scriptwriters
ask for feedback from other successful scriptwriters, right,
makes sense, which is why I want you
to please ask for feedback from successful public speakers
that you know, okay?
And we can always critique ourselves
using the CAP methodology, C-A-P methodology
that we studied in this course, okay,
but we need to ask for a lot of feedback
on the content of our presentation
as again one perfect presentation can change your life
and the lives of many people around you, okay?
So please make sure to listen to the feedback you get
as the customer is always right.
Remember what happened with BonoGate.
It's kinda like Watergate.
BonoGate with Apple.
When Apple actually forced iPhone users
to download the new U2 album, right?
I was excited, I'm a big U2 fan but not everybody is, right,
and it actually upset a lot of customers, right?
That being said, I talk a lot in act six
about the importance of putting passion into your delivery
and into your presentation
and actually, if you get a chance,
listen to this U2 album called The Joshua Tree that was,
it was kinda emblematic and defining
of my youth and generation I guess
back in 87 when it came out.
Damn, I'm old.
But if you listen to it, you can really hear the passion
in Bono's voice when he sings.
Every word of it from the opening line on the album
of "I wanna run, I wanna hide,
"I wanna tear down the walls that hold me inside", right?
I actually still have the single of With or Without You
from way back then, right, and it's interesting
because what would happen is they would put
and this is relevant, okay, so what, okay?
They would put the song on this side that matters,
right, the A side, right,
and then and it's called With or Without You, the song,
and on the B side was a song that they never really released
called Walk to the Water, right?
So A, B testing, whatever, you get the idea.
Right now, everything is digital, right?
So anyway, whatever.
So what, Chris?
Well, not only do I bring this up
because the importance of passion in your speeches
but also back then and even now
artists and scriptwriters and musicians
create too much content, right?
So what they do is they throw it on the other side
of the product that,
on the other side here of this thing, right?
Anyway.
Okay, so again, this is the B side.
So keep all the excess material you have
in your speech handy as I'm gonna show you
how to discuss it during the Q&A session in act number seven
which will make you look incredibly well-prepared, okay,
and again, although I'm a huge U2 fan, my kids,
my kids think U2 is as cool
as Carlton singing Tom Jones
from my favorite TV show when I was a kid.
Carlton rocks as does Will Smith.